The Dream Quest 
of a#above Unknown Kadath

Three times Randolph Carter dreamed of the marvelous city, and three 
times was he snatched away while still he paused on the high terrace 
above it. All golden and lovely it blazed in the sunset, with walls, 
temples, colonnades and arched bridges of veined marble, 
silver-basined fountains of prismatic spray in broad squares and 
perfumed gardens, and wide streets marching between delicate trees 
and blossom-laden urns and ivory statues in gleaming rows; while on 
steep northward slopes climbed tiers of red roofs and old peaked 
gables harbouring little lanes of grassy cobbles. It was a fever of 
the gods, a fanfare of supernal trumpets and a clash of immortal 
cymbals. Mystery hung about it as clouds about a fabulous unvisited 
mountain; and as Carter stood breathless and expectant on that 
balustraded parapet there swept up to him the poignancy and suspense 
of almost-vanished memory, the pain of lost things and the maddening 
need to place again what once had been an awesome and momentous place.

He knew that for him its meaning must once have been supreme; though 
in what cycle or incarnation he had known it, or whether in dream or 
in waking, he could not tell. Vaguely it called up glimpses of a far 
forgotten first youth, when wonder and pleasure lay in all the 
mystery of days, and dawn and dusk alike strode forth prophetic to 
the eager sound of lutes and song, unclosing fiery gates toward 
further and surprising marvels. But each night as he stood on that 
high marble terrace with the curious urns and carven rail and looked 
off over that hushed sunset city of beauty and unearthly immanence he 
felt the bondage of dream's tyrannous gods; for in no wise could he 
leave that lofty spot, or descend the wide marmoreal fights flung 
endlessly down to where those streets of elder witchery lay outspread 
and beckoning.

When for the third time he awakened with those flights still 
undescended and those hushed sunset streets still untraversed, he 
prayed long and earnestly to the hidden gods of dream that brood 
capricious above the clouds on unknown Kadath, in the cold waste 
where no man treads. But the gods made no answer and shewed no 
relenting, nor did they give any favouring sign when he prayed to 
them in dream, and invoked them sacrificially through the bearded 
priests of Nasht and Kaman-Thah, whose cavern-temple with its pillar 
of flame lies not far from the gates of the waking world. It seemed, 
however, that his prayers must have been adversely heard, for after 
even the first of them he ceased wholly to behold the marvellous 
city; as if his three glimpses from afar had been mere accidents or 
oversights, and against some hidden plan or wish of the gods.

At length, sick with longing for those glittering sunset streets and 
cryptical hill lanes among ancient tiled roofs, nor able sleeping or 
waking to drive them from his mind, Carter resolved to go with bold 
entreaty whither no man had gone before, and dare the icy deserts 
through the dark to where unknown Kadath, veiled in cloud and crowned 
with unimagined stars, holds secret and nocturnal the onyx castle of 
the Great Ones.

In light slumber he descended the seventy steps to the cavern of 
flame and talked of this design to the bearded priests Nasht and 
Kaman-Thah. And the priests shook their pshent-bearing heads and 
vowed it would be the death of his soul. They pointed out that the 
Great Ones had shown already their wish, and that it is not agreeable 
to them to be harassed by insistent pleas. They reminded him, too, 
that not only had no man ever been to Kadath, but no man had ever 
suspected in what part of space it may lie; whether it be in the 
dreamlands around our own world, or in those surrounding some 
unguessed companion of Fomalhaut or Aldebaran. If in our dreamland, 
it might conceivably be reached, but only three human souls since 
time began had ever crossed and recrossed the black impious gulfs to 
other dreamlands, and of that three, two had come back quite mad. 
There were, in such voyages, incalculable local dangers; as well as 
that shocking final peril which gibbers unmentionably outside the 
ordered universe, where no dreams reach; that last amorphous blight 
of nethermost confusion which blasphemes and bubbles at the centre of 
all infinity - the boundless daemon sultan Azathoth, whose name no 
lips dare speak aloud, and who gnaws hungrily in inconceivable, 
unlighted chambers beyond time amidst the muffled, maddening beating 
of vile drums and the thin, monotonous whine of accursed flutes; to 
which detestable pounding and piping dance slowly, awkwardly, and 
absurdly the gigantic Ultimate gods, the blind, voiceless, tenebrous, 
mindless Other gods whose soul and messenger is the crawling chaos 
Nyarlathotep.

Of these things was Carter warned by the priests Nasht and Kaman-Thah 
in the cavern of flame, but still he resolved to find the gods on 
unknown Kadath in the cold waste, wherever that might be, and to win 
from them the sight and remembrance and shelter of the marvellous 
sunset city. He knew that his journey would be strange and long, and 
that the Great Ones would be against it; but being old in the land of 
dream he counted on many useful memories and devices to aid him. So 
asking a formal blessing of the priests and thinking shrewdly on his 
course, he boldly descended the seven hundred steps to the Gate of 
Deeper Slumber and set out through the Enchanted Wood.

In the tunnels of that twisted wood, whose low prodigious oaks twine 
groping boughs and shine dim with the phosphorescence of strange 
fungi, dwell the furtive and secretive Zoogs; who know many obscure 
secrets of the dream world and a few of the waking world, since the 
wood at two places touches the lands of men, though it would be 
disastrous to say where. Certain unexplained rumours, events, and 
vanishments occur among men where the Zoogs have access, and it is 
well that they cannot travel far outside the world of dreams. But 
over the nearer parts of the dream world they pass freely, flitting 
small and brown and unseen and bearing back piquant tales to beguile 
the hours around their hearths in the forest they love. Most of them 
live in burrows, but some inhabit the trunks of the great trees; and 
although they live mostly on fungi it is muttered that they have also 
a slight taste for meat, either physical or spiritual, for certainly 
many dreamers have entered that wood who have not come out. Carter, 
however, had no fear; for he was an old dreamer and had learnt their 
fluttering language and made many a treaty with them; having found 
through their help the splendid city of Celephais in Ooth-Nargai 
beyond the Tanarian Hills, where reigns half the year the great King 
Kuranes, a man he had known by another name in life. Kuranes was the 
one soul who had been to the star-gulls and returned free from 
madness.

Threading now the low phosphorescent aisles between those gigantic 
trunks, Carter made fluttering sounds in the manner of the Zoogs, and 
listened now and then for responses. He remembered one particular 
village of the creatures was in the centre of the wood, where a 
circle of great mossy stones in what was once a cleaning tells of 
older and more terrible dwellers long forgotten, and toward this spot 
he hastened. He traced his way by the grotesque fungi, which always 
seem better nourished as one approaches the dread circle where elder 
beings danced and sacrificed. Finally the great light of those 
thicker fungi revealed a sinister green and grey vastness pushing up 
through the roof of the forest and out of sight. This was the nearest 
of the great ring of stones, and Carter knew he was close to the Zoog 
village. Renewing his fluttering sound, he waited patiently; and was 
at last rewarded by an impression of many eyes watching him. It was 
the Zoogs, for one sees their weird eyes long before one can discern 
their small, slippery brown outlines.

Out they swarmed, from hidden burrow and honeycombed tree, till the 
whole dim-litten region was alive with them. Some of the wilder ones 
brushed Carter unpleasantly, and one even nipped loathsomely at his 
ear; but these lawless spirits were soon restrained by their elders. 
The Council of Sages, recognizing the visitor, offered a gourd of 
fermented sap from a haunted tree unlike the others, which had grown 
from a seed dropt down by someone on the moon; and as Carter drank it 
ceremoniously a very strange colloquy began. The Zoogs did not, 
unfortunately, know where the peak of Kadath lies, nor could they 
even say whether the cold waste is in our dream world or in another. 
Rumours of the Great Ones came equally from all points; and one might 
only say that they were likelier to be seen on high mountain peaks 
than in valleys, since on such peaks they dance reminiscently when 
the moon is above and the clouds beneath.

Then one very ancient Zoog recalled a thing unheard-of by the others; 
and said that in Ulthar, beyond the River Skai, there still lingered 
the last copy of those inconceivably old Pnakotic Manuscripts made by 
waking men in forgotten boreal kingdoms and borne into the land of 
dreams when the hairy cannibal Gnophkehs overcame many-templed 
Olathoe and slew all the heroes of the land of Lomar. Those 
manuscripts he said, told much of the gods, and besides, in Ulthar 
there were men who had seen the signs of the gods, and even one old 
priest who had scaled a great mountain to behold them dancing by 
moonlight. He had failed, though his companion had succeeded and 
perished namelessly.

So Randolph Carter thanked the Zoogs, who fluttered amicably and gave 
him another gourd of moon-tree wine to take with him, and set out 
through the phosphorescent wood for the other side, where the rushing 
Skai flows down from the slopes of Lerion, and Hatheg and Nir and 
Ulthar dot the plain. Behind him, furtive and unseen, crept several 
of the curious Zoogs; for they wished to learn what might befall him, 
and bear back the legend to their people. The vast oaks grew thicker 
as he pushed on beyond the village, and he looked sharply for a 
certain spot where